# Aliquam
### A system for describing build dependencies


## The Pain

Most build systems suck.  Almost all of them are language-specific,
attempt to look declarative, but wind up allowing arbitrary code
execution anyway due to the fact that build requirements get more and
more complex over time.

The only real build system that has managed to remain relevant, cross
platform, and widely used is the classic Make, but even Make has some
shortfalls:

1. Not every task produces files.
2. Not every task consumes files.
3. Makefiles often have to be generated by configure scripts.

It's clear that Make was built to compile C programs, and it does a
remarkable job of that!  Sadly, it's a pain when you want it to do
more than a few calls to gcc.

## The Joy

The one thing that Make got right was the idea that builds should be
described as an acyclic directed graph, and that entire branches of
the graph can be skipped if their inputs don't change.

For small projects, it is also typically pretty easy to read and
understand their Makefile, as it describes the command-line steps
required to build the software.

## Aliquam

Aliquam is a task execution engine, where tasks are nodes in a graph
with edges representing dependencies between the nodes.  These nodes
have two fundamenal operations:

1. Predicate: should this node be run?
2. Execution: run the script for this node.

Branch nodes will likely have a very simple predicate: run
only when my dependencies have changed.

Similarly, leaf nodes like "run gcc on these files" would have a
predicate that checks timestamps on the input files, compares it
to the timestamps on the output files, and can decide when to
re-run based on that.

The execution of most nodes is very simple: it merely runs a
provided binary with some arguments.  One could imagine more
complex execution nodes that run bash scripts, powershell scripts,
python scripts, etc...
